README.md, before:

deploy-digital-ocean
=========
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/toilops/deploy-digital-ocean.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/toilops/deploy-digital-ocean)

Create droplets within the Digital Ocean ecosystem. Tag all droplets to ansible managed tag, return the ip address and droplet ID. 

Requirements
------------

This role does require you to install the `dopy` python module.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
The role will handle creating the ssh key if the `do_ssh_key_id` is undefined. When using an existing ssh key already within your Digital Ocean account you will need to retrieve the key id and set the variable.
```yaml
do_ssh_key_id: number
``` 

To find your ssh key id you can make a simple GET request to the `/v2/account/keys` api. API docs can be found [here](https://developers.digitalocean.com/documentation/v2/#list-all-keys) 

Role Variables
--------------

We require the following variable to be set when including the role. I would suggest setting this variable within a vault file inside your host_vars directory for the endpoint that will be running this play.
```yaml
do_api_key: string
```

When the `do_ssh_key_id` variable is undefined we will check the local system for a public key. When a key is found it will be loaded into your DigitalOcean account. When the key fingerprint matches another key the role will fail since we don't want to step onto of your existing settings. By default the role will look in `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`, this value can be overridden by setting the `local_pub_key` variable to another file. The key name in your DO account will be`ansible_crtl_hostname` of the server this role was executed on.
```yaml
local_pub_key: "{{ lookup('file', '~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub') }}"
```

The below variables are set within the defaults directory. These can be overridden if you need to deploy a bigger droplet or change your droplet name or region. 
```yaml
do_api_key: "{{ vault_do_api_key }}"
do_ssh_key_id: "{{ vault_do_ssh_key_id }}"
do_ssh_key_name: "ansible_crtl_{{ ansible_hostname }}"
droplet_name: 
    - dev0ansible
droplet_size: 512mb
do_region: nyc3
droplet_image_id: centos-6-x64
do_tag_name: ansible_mng
```

The `do_ssh_key_name` is used when adding your localhost ssh key to your Digital Ocean account. This will only run when `do_ssh_key_id` is undefined. When the role executes it will add the ssh key if the key finger print isn't found within your account. For each subsequent run the `ssh_key_id` will be used. This basically allows you to create an `ansible_crtl_hostname` key and use that key going forward.

The `droplet_name` is a list and will default to a single host called `dev0ansible`. You can increase the number of hosts by adding additional hostnames to your role arguments `{"droplet_name":["dev1ansible","dev2ansible"]}`

Example Playbook
----------------

Simple role include example:
```yaml
    - hosts: localhost
      connection: local
      roles:
         - { role: toilops.deploy-digital-ocean, droplet_name: ["dev2ansible","dev3ansible"] }
```
License
-------

BSD

Author Information
------------------

[Find me on github @BondAnthony](https://github.com/BondAnthony)

Commit message:

Included droplet facts
These facts can be used in downstream tasks

README.md, after:

deploy-digital-ocean
=========
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/toilops/deploy-digital-ocean.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/toilops/deploy-digital-ocean)

Create droplets within the Digital Ocean ecosystem. Tag all droplets to ansible managed tag, return the ip address and droplet ID. 

Requirements
------------

This role does require you to install the `dopy` python module.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
The role will handle creating the ssh key if the `do_ssh_key_id` is undefined. When using an existing ssh key already within your Digital Ocean account you will need to retrieve the key id and set the variable.
```yaml
do_ssh_key_id: number
``` 

To find your ssh key id you can make a simple GET request to the `/v2/account/keys` api. API docs can be found [here](https://developers.digitalocean.com/documentation/v2/#list-all-keys) 

Role Variables
--------------

We require the following variable to be set when including the role. I would suggest setting this variable within a vault file inside your host_vars directory for the endpoint that will be running this play.
```yaml
do_api_key: string
```

When the `do_ssh_key_id` variable is undefined we will check the local system for a public key. When a key is found it will be loaded into your DigitalOcean account. When the key fingerprint matches another key the role will fail since we don't want to step onto of your existing settings. By default the role will look in `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`, this value can be overridden by setting the `local_pub_key` variable to another file. The key name in your DO account will be`ansible_crtl_hostname` of the server this role was executed on.
```yaml
local_pub_key: "{{ lookup('file', '~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub') }}"
```

The below variables are set within the defaults directory. These can be overridden if you need to deploy a bigger droplet or change your droplet name or region. 
```yaml
do_api_key: "{{ vault_do_api_key }}"
do_ssh_key_id: "{{ vault_do_ssh_key_id }}"
do_ssh_key_name: "ansible_crtl_{{ ansible_hostname }}"
droplet_name: 
    - dev0ansible
droplet_size: 512mb
do_region: nyc3
droplet_image_id: centos-6-x64
do_tag_name: ansible_mng
```

The `do_ssh_key_name` is used when adding your localhost ssh key to your Digital Ocean account. This will only run when `do_ssh_key_id` is undefined. When the role executes it will add the ssh key if the key finger print isn't found within your account. For each subsequent run the `ssh_key_id` will be used. This basically allows you to create an `ansible_crtl_hostname` key and use that key going forward.

The `droplet_name` is a list and will default to a single host called `dev0ansible`. You can increase the number of hosts by adding additional hostnames to your role arguments `{"droplet_name":["dev1ansible","dev2ansible"]}`

During the droplet provision process two facts will be set within your environment; `ddo_group` will contain the host ip address and `droplet_id` will contain the ID. These facts can be used to perform additional operations against the droplet.

Example Playbook
----------------

Simple role include example:
```yaml
    - hosts: localhost
      connection: local
      roles:
         - { role: toilops.deploy-digital-ocean, droplet_name: ["dev2ansible","dev3ansible"] }
```
License
-------

BSD

Author Information
------------------

[Find me on github @BondAnthony](https://github.com/BondAnthony)
